[DOC-75] Document guidance for hybrid and multi-cloud (#19123)
cockroachdb/docs: src/current/_includes/common/hybrid-multi-cloud.md

This page provides information about hybrid and multi-cloud self-hosted deployments of CockroachDB. Each of these types of deployments can help an organization to meet its service-level and disaster recovery objectives.

- In a _hybrid deployment_, a cluster's nodes are deployed in a combination of infrastructure you manage, private cloud provider infrastructure, and public cloud provider infrastructure.

> - In a _multi-cloud deployment_, a cluster's nodes are deployed in multiple cloud providers' infrastructure public or private infrastructure.

Author: Done

Often, the two terms are used interchangeably.

A hybrid or multi-cloud deployment can help you to:

- Power a single application with data stored across multiple clouds.
- Use data that is created in one cloud to perform analysis in another cloud without having to move data manually.
- Enhance the mobility of applications by being able to move them from one cloud to another.

> - Protect against a single cloud provider becoming a single point of failure (SPOF).

Author: ```suggestion
- Protect against a single cloud provider outage becoming a single point of failure (SPOF).
```

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} does not support hybrid or multi-cloud deployments.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Configure a hybrid or multi-cloud deployment

To set up a hybrid or multi-cloud deployment:

- **Each node must be able to communicate with and route traffic to each of the cluster's other nodes** using the hostnames or IP addresses referenced by the `--join` flag of the [`cockroach start`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cockroach-start.md %}) command. A node's network is configured at the level of the node's operating system. Nodes could be connected by peering cloud provider virtual private cloud (VPC) networks together, using a VPN, encrypted network tunnels, by a combination of routing and port forwarding, or using another mechanism.

    CockroachDB could route SQL client requests to any cluster node, regardless of where the client connection originates.
- **There must be no overlapping IP address ranges** across the cluster. It is an error for multiple nodes to have the same IP address or to resolve to the same hostname.

>     DNS name resolution is particularly complex in a Kubernetes deployment. We recommend that you replace `kube-dns` with Core DNS. Refer to [Deploy CockroachDB on GKE](https://github.com/mbookham7/crdb-multi-cloud-k8s/blob/master/markdown/5-deploy-cockroach.md) for details.

Author: I do say "in a Kubernetes deployment" just before the "We" so I don't think this change would add much. WDYT?

>     DNS name resolution is particularly complex in a Kubernetes deployment. On GKE, we recommend that you replace `kube-dns` with Core DNS. Refer to [Deploy CockroachDB on GKE](https://github.com/mbookham7/crdb-multi-cloud-k8s/blob/master/markdown/5-deploy-cockroach.md) for details.

Author: ```suggestion
    DNS name resolution is particularly complex in a Kubernetes deployment. We recommend that you replace `kube-dns` with Core DNS. Refer to [Deploy CockroachDB on GKE](https://github.com/mbookham7/crdb-multi-cloud-k8s/blob/master/markdown/5-deploy-cockroach.md) for details.
```

> - **In a multi-region deployment, we recommend that you use manifests**. Refer to [Deploy multi-cloud CockroachDB on GKE](https://github.com/mbookham7/crdb-multi-cloud-k8s/blob/master/markdown/5-deploy-cockroach.md) for details.

Author: Done

> - **Each node deployed in the same environment must share locality** to ensure that the cluster's replicas are spread across deployment environments and to prevent single points of failure or hot spots. To specify a node's locality, use the `--locality` flag, which accepts an arbitrary set of key-value pairs that describe the location of the node. For example, if nodes are deployed in both Azure and Digital Ocean, you could set each node's locality to either `--locality data-center=azure` or `--locality data-center=digital-ocean`.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Each node deployed in the same environment must share locality** to ensure that the cluster's replicas are spread across deployment environments and to prevent single points of failure or hot spots. To specify a node's locality, pass the `--locality` flag when [starting a node]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cockroach-start.md %). This flag accepts an arbitrary set of key-value pairs that describe the location of the node. For example, if nodes are deployed in both Azure and Digital Ocean, you could set each node's locality to either `--locality data-center=azure` or `--locality data-center=digital-ocean`.
```

> - **Each node deployed in the same environment must share locality** to ensure that the cluster's replicas are spread across deployment environments and to prevent single points of failure or hot spots. To specify a node's locality, pass the `--locality` flag when [starting a node]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cockroach-start.md %). This flag accepts an arbitrary set of key-value pairs that describe the location of the node. For example, if nodes are deployed in both Azure and Digital Ocean, you could set each node's locality to either `--locality data-center=azure` or `--locality data-center=digital-ocean`.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Each node deployed in the same environment must share locality** to ensure that the cluster's replicas are spread across deployment environments and to prevent single points of failure or hot spots. To specify a node's locality, pass the `--locality` flag when [starting a node]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cockroach-start.md %}). This flag accepts an arbitrary set of key-value pairs that describe the location of the node. For example, if nodes are deployed in both Azure and Digital Ocean, you could set each node's locality to either `--locality data-center=azure` or `--locality data-center=digital-ocean`.
```

> - **Each node deployed in the same environment must share locality** to ensure that the cluster's replicas are spread across deployment environments and to prevent single points of failure or hot spots. To specify a node's locality, pass the `--locality` flag when [starting a node]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cockroach-start.md %}). This flag accepts an arbitrary set of key-value pairs that describe the location of the node. For example, if nodes are deployed in both Azure and Digital Ocean, you could set each node's locality to either `--locality data-center=azure` or `--locality data-center=digital-ocean`.

Reviewer: nit: They should share one level of tag, but if e.g. within each environment there are different AZs, then they would have the same "data-center" tag but different 'az' tag. You specify that in the next para but saying they "must share locality" makes it seem like they have to be exactly the same.

Also, is there a good page to link to re: locality hierarchy?

Author: There isn't a good reference page for that. There are several open issues about locality, which someone else will need to take on.

Addressed the other feedback by a bit of reworking of this section.

    If nodes are deployed in multiple regions within the same cloud provider, specify the region as an additional locality, to ensure that replicas are spread across regions in each cloud provider's infrastructure.

## Simulate an outage

> This section shows some ways to simulate an outage and validate disaster recovery procedures in a hybrid or multi-cloud deployment.

Reviewer: Can we add a sentence along the lines of "you should run this testing to ensure you've correctly set up the locality flags"?

Author: Done

> - **To simulate a single-node outage**, you could down the host or VM where the node is running, or disable its network interface.

Author: ```suggestion
- **To simulate a single-node outage**, you could forcibly shut down the `cockroach` process on the host or VM, such as by running `kill -9`, or you could disable the host's network interface.
```

> - **To simulate a single-region cloud-provider outage**, you could shut down all hosts or VMs in that region on that cloud provider, or disable their network interfaces.

Author: ```suggestion
- **To simulate a single-region cloud-provider outage**, you could forcibly shut down the `cockroach` process on all hosts or VMs in that region on that cloud provider, you could disable their network interfaces, adjust routing or firewall rules, or make other networking adjustments to prevent nodes in one region from connecting to the cluster.
```

> - **To simulate a cloud-provider-wide outage**, you could shut down all hosts or VMs on that cloud provider, disable their network interfaces, or disconnect that cloud provider's network from your other nodes' networks.

Author: ```suggestion
- **To simulate a cloud-provider-wide outage**, you could forcibly shut down the `cockroach` process all hosts or VMs running in that cloud provider, you could disable their network interfaces, adjust routing or firewall rules, or make other networking adjustments to prevent nodes in that cloud provider from connecting to the cluster.
```
